[OSDOCS#18859]: Added files for Degraded TNF (#110945)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/node-failure-sequence-in-a-tnf-cluster.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * installing_tnf/operating-degraded-two-node-fencing-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="node-failure-sequence-in-a-tnf-cluster_{context}"]
= Node failure sequence in a TNF cluster

[role="_abstract"]
A Two-Node with Fencing (TNF) cluster enters a `degraded` state when one of its two control-plane nodes becomes unavailable. The active control plane remains hosted on the surviving node, allowing the cluster to remain functional within defined constraints.

.Automatic failure handling sequence

> [cols="1,3", options="header"]

Reviewer: Since this is a sequence, present it as an ordered list.

|===
| Event Phase | Technical Action

| **1. Detection**
| **Corosync detects the failure:** The surviving node identifies that heartbeat signals from its peer have stopped.

| **2. Isolation**

> | **STONITH fencing is triggered:** The surviving node uses the Redfish API to contact the baseboard management controller (BMC) of the failed node. It issues a power-off or reboot command to ensure the failed node is isolated. This prevents a `split-brain` scenario where both nodes attempt to write to shared storage. 

Reviewer 2: I don't think `shared storage` should be the focus

```suggestion
| **STONITH fencing is triggered:** The surviving node uses the Redfish API to contact the baseboard management controller (BMC) of the failed node. It issues a power-off or reboot command to ensure the failed node is isolated. This prevents a `split-brain` scenario where the isolated node continues running containers locally while OpenShift attempts to reschedule those same workloads onto healthy nodes—ensuring that stateful Pods, routing services, and storage volumes maintain a single, valid owner.. 
```

If the Shoot The Other Node In The Head(STONITH) fencing operation fails, the surviving node cannot safely assume control of cluster resources. In this case, an administrator must manually power off the failed hardware before the cluster can recover.

| **3. Quorum Adjustment**

> | **etcd adjusts to single-member operation:** The cluster removes the failed node's etcd member. etcd continues to operate with a single voting member, maintaining a valid quorum so that the Kubernetes API remains accessible.

Reviewer 3: The etcd member isn't actually removed. `etcdctl member list` shows the failed member still present as an **unstarted learner** (`IS LEARNER = true`). The surviving member becomes the sole voter, but the failed member stays in the list ready for re-promotion. Suggesting something like: "The etcd operator demotes the failed node's etcd member to a non-voting learner. The surviving member operates as the sole voter, maintaining quorum."

| **4. Scheduling**

> | **Node marked as `NotReady`:** Kubernetes updates the status of the failed node. Pods on that node transition to a `Terminating` or `Unknown` state. Because redundancy is lost, workloads are only rescheduled if sufficient resources exist on the surviving node and no anti-affinity rules prevent it.

Reviewer 3: On the live cluster, no pods show `Unknown` phase. Deployment-managed pods display as `Terminating` (deletionTimestamp set), but their API phase remains `Running` since kubelet can't process the deletion. DaemonSet pods stay fully `Running`. Might be worth adjusting to reflect the actual observed states.

> | **Node status transitions to `NotReady`:** When a node fails, Kubernetes updates its status, and affected workloads lose redundancy. On a live cluster, `DaemonSet` pods remain `Running` and `Deployment` pods display a `Terminating` status. However, because the unreachable kubelet cannot process the deletion, these `Deployment` pods technically remain in a Running API phase and are only rescheduled if surviving nodes have available resources and clear anti-affinity rules.

Reviewer 2: Something is wrong with the syntaxing here. There is a space between NotReady and the colon.
